Now last but not least before we then really ship our application to a server, to a hosting provider, I want
to have a look at ssl/tls
and tls is simply the newer version of that,
ssl is the term more people know however. Both is about securing your data that is sent from a client
to the server because when we communicate between client server, we typically exchange data.
Now we can have an attacker, third party who's eavesdropping on that data, this is technically possible,
of course not super trivial but possible and therefore this attacker could read your data which you're
sending from the client to the server which is of course a problem
if we're talking about credit card data or anything like that.
Hence we want to protect that data and we do that with ssl/tls encryption.
Now once such encryption is in place, eavesdropping is not possible anymore because while the data is
unreadable as long as it is in transit and it will be decrypted on the server. Now to enable that encryption
and to be able to decrypt it, we work with a public private key pair,
both is known to the server.
Now that public key is as the name suggests, not something we have to protect, the private key is
however, the private key will ever only be known by the server because the private key will later be
important for decrypting the data,
the public key will be used for encrypting. Now in ssl certificate,
we bind that public key to the server identity,
the identity is simply something like the domain, the admin email address, you set that data when you
create a certificate. That ssl certificate therefore connects a public key and a server and sends that
to the client, to the browser so that the client also is aware of the public key and knows that it belongs
to that server.
Now typically you will use a certificate authority for that, though you can create your own ssl
certificates too and we'll do that in this module
but when you create your own keys, then the browser does not actually trust you that the information in there
is correct and that is when you get informations or warnings like hey this page uses ssl but doesn't
seem to be secure,
do you really want to visit it.
Hence in production, you would use a ssl certificate provided by a known certificate authority which the
browser trusts and therefore you have a real secure and trusted protection.
Nonetheless the way it works always is the same,
we have that public key, part of that certificate, certificate ideally is not created by you but by a trusted
authority, we will create it here on our own though because that will be free,
that public key is then received by the client through that certificate and now the client can encrypt
the data which it sends to the server and the server can decrypt the data with that private key and
only that private key can decrypt that data
and this is how that works and how that secures your data in transit.
Now let me show you how this works in practice,
now to set up a ssl connection on your own server with your own certificate,
again you should get one from an authority once you deploy that to production but for testing this, we
can definitely play around with our own one,
we need to create a certificate and we do it with a command named open ssl. On Mac and Linux, you have
that available by default,
on Windows you don't
but there you can find it by googling for open ssl windows and then that
second link here,
this binaries link leads you to a page where you can take the first link to ssl pro web and there when
you scroll down, you'll find installers that install this open ssl tool on Windows too, so that you can
follow along with the commands
I'm about to run on Windows as well. Choose your version here, install it and once you have installed it, you
can run open ssl rec-nodes-new-x509-keyout server.key-out server.cert
and this will give you that private key and the public key packaged up in a certificate.
Now once you hit enter, you will be asked a couple of questions and there make sure to choose valid values
though that does not really matter too much but the idea here is that you connect your identity,
the identity of your application to your public key
though again your own self-signed certificate will not be accepted by browsers anyways,
for production you should not use that option. Still
let's fill it out with some truthy values
and one important value is this common name,
you must set this to localhost otherwise the certificate will not work because this has to be set to
your domain.
So if you were to use your self-signed certificate on the server you deploy your app to and you host
this app on example.com, then then you would have to set this to example.com.
Again typically you request a certificate for your domain by some authority and then they will do this
for you
but if you create your own one, use the domain your app is running on and locally, that is localhost
and this certificate will be denied and will not be accepted
if you set this to another value. Now after you did all that, you'll find two new files in your folder,
server cert which is the certificate and server key which is the private key. Now the private key will
always stay on your server,
the certificate is what we send to the client in the end.
Now to use that, in app.js I
first of all have to import a new node module and that is the https module which allows us to spin
up an https server.
Thus far, we directly or indirectly through app listen used http,
now we'll use https. To use that, I need to read in my files and I will do that up here.
I will read in my private key by using the node file system package which you need to make sure you
import in this file
here, you need that file system package and there, you can read a file synchronously.
Now this will block code execution until the file is read and you learned
that typically, this is not what you want to do
but here I actually don't want to continue with starting the server unless I have read that file in.
So here I will read that file synchronously and the file I want to read is server.key,
so my private key file. I'll also add another constant which I'll name certificate and that will be fs read
file sync and then of course it's my server.cert file.
Now with these two files read in, we can scroll down to the place where we start the server with app
listen and now I'll not use app listen any more but I'll use https, this new package we just imported and there,
create server to create a https server.
This now needs two arguments,
the first one configures the server
and here we have to point it at our private key and the certificate and the second argument will be our
request handler,
in our case our express application. So the second argument will be our app,
the first argument will be a javascript object where you need to set two things, you need to set the
key key and you set that to that private key
constant we created a second ago and you also need to set the cert key which you set to that certificate
constant we created a second ago and then we listen on that server.
Now with that, if you run npm start, it will start your server
but now using ssl encryption and if we now go back to our application and we reload localhost 3000,
this will fail because by default it uses http,
if I use https localhost 3000, it will fail because the browser does not accept that custom or that
self-signed certificate as you learned
but if you click on advanced here, you can proceed to localhost and now again, the browser does warn us
because it does not like our self-signed certificate
but technically we are now using ssl protection. And this is how you enable it
but just as with logging and compression, typically you would set this up differently,
you would let your hosting provider set this up because technically the hosting provider often also
has its own servers in front of yours and the servers of the hosting provider then use ssl and the traffic
between your app and the in-between servers does use http because it's blocked or it's not available
to the public anyways and the hosting providers front servers would implement this logic. So you wouldn't
write that code on your own
and indeed here, I will fallback to my old code where I just had app listen because we'll need that
later when we deploy it because we will let our hosting provider manage ssl
but if you ever need to do it manually, this is how you do start a node server in https mode.